As we saw at the end of last video, we can definitely sign up for an account, but if we enter in some
invalid input, we get back an error response, but we don't actually show anything on the form about
it.
So in this video, we're going to make sure that we capture errors during the signup request and display
them on the screen.
To do so, I'm going to go back over to my editor.
I'm going to find that on Submit Handler.
And to capture the error that comes back, I'm going to wrap this request right here inside of a try
patch.
Statement.
And they'll fix up some indentation.
So now if anything goes wrong with this request, we'll be kicked down to the catch statement and the
failed request will show up as error right here.
Let's just do a console log of this air thing and get a better idea of what data actually exists inside
of it.
So I'm going to do a console log of error, that response data.
Let's just console log that for right now.
I'm going to save the file.
Flip back over.
And I'll once again enter in an invalid email and a invalid password.
All tend to sign up.
Now I can see that whenever I cancel log out error response data I get back.
That response will be sent back inside of all of our standardized error handling stuff.
So it is a array of errors inside of a errors object.
And that array of airs every year has a message and possibly a field.
So in order to communicate some validation air to the user, we really just want to get a handle on
this air's array.
We can then iterate over the air's array and for every message inside of here, we can somehow just
render it out on the screen so that the user knows that something just went wrong.
Let's try that out.
Back inside my editor.
I'm going to go back up to the top and I'm going to add in a new piece of state.
I'm going to call this Ayres and the set Ayres setter.
I'm going to default this to be an empty array.
Then whenever we get some kind of error in the response, it comes back.
Rather than doing a console.log.
We're going to instead call set errors.
And we'll set it to our response data errors.
So remember, that's going to be our array of errors.
That has those objects with the message and possibly the field property can delete the console log now.
So now down inside of our form, we can attempt to map over or iterate over this arrays array right
here, and for every error message we'll simply show an error to the user.
Okay.
So back down here.
Right above the button, I'm going to add on a mapping statement.
So let's say airport map.
And right now I'll just take each error.
They'll abbreviate as error and I will return error message.
So we'll start simple.
Let's just get some text to show up.
I'm going to save this.
Look back over.
And now if I attempt to submit the form without an email or even a password, I should see something
like that right there.
Now we're just taking the message off of each error and printing it up onto the screen.
Let's definitely works, but we probably want some better formatting than what we have right here.
So let's go back over and fix up this mapping statement just a little bit.
I'm going to add in around this Ayres thing, a div that has a class name of alert and alert.
The danger.
Then inside that div, I'm going to add in an H four and I'm going to give it some text like oops,
just to indicate that something went wrong.
After the H four, I'm going to display a UL that has a class name of my dash zero and I'll close off
the UL on the other side.
Then as I'm mapping over these errors, I'm going to make sure that I wrap each of these error messages
inside of an LIJ element so I'll put in an ly.
And whenever remember we show a array of elements using React, we have to provide a key property to
these elements that are being built inside the list.
The requirements of that key property are just that.
It is some unique key or some unique value.
So we could simply use the error message itself as the key.
So on the fly itself, I'll add in a prop of key and I'll set that equal to error message like so.
Okay.
Let's save this.
I'm going to flip back over and do a quick test.
Now, naturally, when we first load up the application, we see this red box right here, because right
now we don't have anything saying, oh, show or don't show this thing.
So we will have to wrap this entire div with some logic to decide whether or not to show it.
But right now, let's just make sure that we can capture the error messages and show them on the screen.
I'll go ahead and attempt to sign up.
And I think I forgot something.
Probably forgot those curly braces around earlier.
Message.
That's better.
Now if I sign up.
There we go.
So I see email must be valid and password must be between four and 20 characters.
Now, naturally, it would be better to show this validation information right next to right underneath
each of these input elements.
That is why we put on that field property on each of these air objects.
So remember, every object has a message and possibly the field property.
So we could take a look at that field property and use it to look up these different errors and then
put them right underneath the appropriate input.
But that was just a little bit too much on the React side for the context of this course.
So I decided to just keep it simple.
This is pretty much good enough.
Okay, last thing that we need to do is make sure that we only show this entire div if there actually
are some errors.
So for that, I'm going to take the entire div.
I'm going to wrap it with a set of curly braces.
Ben right in front of the div.
We're going to add in.
Air's length greater than zero and and then the div itself.
So as long as we have more than one error, let's show that div.
I'm going to then save this.
I'm going to flip back over.
So now I don't see anything at all by default.
But as soon as I have some errors I see the div start to appear.
So this definitely looks good now, although this is a reasonable implementation right here.
I just want to point out that this kind of validation and error display displaying logic and even the
request logic that we have up here is something that we're probably going to repeat many times throughout
this application.
We have many different forms we need to put together.
Not only do we have to put together some forms for sign in, but we also need to eventually create some
forms for, say, creating an order or creating a ticket or editing a ticket.
So without a doubt, a lot of the logic that we just wrote out is going to have to be repeated several
times over our project.
So with that in mind, let's take a pause right now.
But we're going to come back the next video and we're going to try to extract a lot of this logic around
making request into some kind of helper function.